In Dart, `null` is a special value that represents the absence of a value or the lack of any meaningful object reference. It is the sole instance of the `Null` type, and it indicates that a variable does not currently point to any object or has no assigned value.

Here are some key points about `null` in Dart:

1. **Default Value for Uninitialised Variables:**
   - Dart initialises variables to `null` by default if no initial value is provided. For example:

     ```dart
     String name;
     print(name); // Outputs: null
     ```

2. **Nullable Types and Null Safety:**
   - Dart introduced null safety, a feature that helps catch null reference errors during development. In null-safe Dart code, variables are non-nullable by default, meaning they cannot be assigned a value of `null` unless explicitly declared as nullable.

     ```dart
     String? nullableString = 'Hello';
     nullableString = null; // This is allowed for nullable types.
     ```

3. **Avoiding Null Reference Errors:**
   - Null safety helps prevent null reference errors by making it explicit whether a variable can be `null` or not. If a variable is declared as non-nullable (`String`, for example), the Dart compiler ensures that it is never assigned the value `null`.

     ```dart
     String nonNullableString = 'Hello';
     nonNullableString = null; // This would result in a compilation error.
     ```

4. **Checking for Null:**
   - You can explicitly check if a variable is `null` using conditional statements or the null-aware operators like `??` (null-aware cascading) and `?.` (null-aware member access).

     ```dart
     String? maybeNullString = getNullableString();

     if (maybeNullString != null) {
       print(maybeNullString.length); // No null reference error.
     }

     // Using the null-aware member access operator
     print(maybeNullString?.length);
     ```

   - The null-aware operators help you handle situations where a variable might be `null` without causing runtime errors.
5. **Scope of Null:**
	- If we declare the null variable outside the main function, then we are not giving the context to the compiler and hence we will have to use the null-aware operators.
```dart
		String? someValue;
		void main(){
			print(someValue);
			someValue = "Hi";
			print(someValue.length); // This will return error
			print(someValue?.length); // outputs 2(length of "Hi")
//This will not return error as we are manually using the null aware operator
			someValue = null;
			print(someValue?.length??0);// This will output 0 as the output of length rather than outputting null.
		}
```
Understanding how `null` works in Dart is essential for writing robust and error-resistant code, especially with the introduction of null safety in modern Dart versions.